USF-1485: CDN configuration (#80)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/implementation/setup/content-delivery-network.mdx

Defaulting to Edge Delivery Services is generally ideal because you'll have to log in to the Commerce Admin and understand Fastly VCLs to add the path for routing in the “default to Commerce” scenario when adding a new page in Edge Delivery Services. Therefore, the VCL snippets below focus on the “default to Edge” use case.

The following table provides a high-level comparison of the three routing options:

| Topic                           | Full storefront                              | Luma Bridge                                  | Homepage only                                                 |
|---------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Routing logic**               | Default to Edge Delivery Services            | Default to Edge Delivery Services            | Default to Commerce                                           |

> | **Paths routed to Commerce**    | Product images, GraphQL endpoint             | Transactional pages, additional endpoints    | All paths except explicitly set ones                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Paths routed to Commerce**    | Product images, GraphQL endpoint             | Transactional pages, account page, REST endpoints, etc    | All paths except those explicitly set                          |
```

> | **Paths routed to Commerce**    | Product images, GraphQL endpoint             | Transactional pages, additional endpoints    | All paths except explicitly set ones                          |

Reviewer: Is it worth noting that for all cases, admin paths will need to obviously still be routed to commerce?

Author: Yeah, probably so. Just to be safe. I'll add a note.

| **Paths routed to Edge**        | All other paths                              | Product catalog, content pages               | Homepage                                                      |

> | **Commerce Admin involvement**  | Minimal                                      | Moderate                                     | High                                                          |

Reviewer: Where do you get this metric of "involvement"?

Author: GenAI artifact. I'll remove it.

| **VCL snippets focus**          | Default to Edge Delivery Services            | Default to Edge Delivery Services            | Default to Commerce                                           |
| **Optimization tips**           | Avoid additional TLS handshake for API calls | Same as full storefront                      | Route resources (JS, CSS) to Edge Delivery Services           |

> | **Common patterns**             | Use custom LS Widget for API URL             | Same as full storefront                      | Move Edge code to subfolder (e.g., aem)                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Common patterns**             | Use CDN as proxy for catalog service             | Same as full storefront                      | Move Edge code to subfolder (e.g., aem)                       |
```

| **Routing logic**              | Default to Edge Delivery Services            | Default to Edge Delivery Services                      | Default to Commerce                                           |
| **Paths routed to Commerce**   | Product images, GraphQL endpoint             | Transactional pages, account page, REST endpoints, etc | All paths except those explicitly                             |
| **Paths routed to Edge**       | All other paths                              | Product catalog, content pages                         | Homepage                                                      |
| **VCL snippets focus**         | Default to Edge Delivery Services            | Default to Edge Delivery Services                      | Default to Commerce                                           |
| **Optimization tips**          | Avoid additional TLS handshake for API calls | Same as full storefront                                | Route resources (JS, CSS) to Edge Delivery Services           |

> | **Common patterns**            | Use CDN as proxy for Catalog Service         | Same as full storefront                                | Move Edge code to subfolder (e.g., `aem`)                     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Common patterns**            | Use CDN as proxy for Catalog Service         | Same as full storefront                                | Move Edge code to subfolder, such as `aem`                    |
```

* CDN must proxy requests to your Catalog Service API endpoint (https://catalog-service.adobe.io/graphql and https://catalog-service-sandbox.adobe.io/graphql).

  :::tip

>   These API endpoints impact largest contentful paint (LCP), so we want to avoid an additional TLS handshake. This optimization has already been applied to the boilerplate, where we use a "custom" version of the LS Widget to change the API URL used by the widget.

Reviewer: Maybe a link to the code in the boilerplate where we pass this API url to the LS Widget.

https://github.com/hlxsites/aem-boilerplate-commerce/blob/a6b65050051b6696c36c5653dfb4a0e5696ef311/blocks/product-list-page/product-list-page.js#L15

* CDN must proxy requests to your Catalog Service API endpoint (https://catalog-service.adobe.io/graphql and https://catalog-service-sandbox.adobe.io/graphql).

  :::tip

>   These API endpoints impact largest contentful paint (LCP), so we want to avoid an additional TLS handshake. This optimization has already been [applied](https://github.com/hlxsites/aem-boilerplate-commerce/blob/develop/blocks/product-list-page/product-list-page.js#L15) to the boilerplate, where we use a "custom" version of the LS Widget to change the API URL used by the widget.

Reviewer 2: I don't think LS is an approved initialism for Live Search
```suggestion
  These API endpoints impact largest contentful paint (LCP), so we want to avoid an additional TLS handshake. This optimization has already been [applied](https://github.com/hlxsites/aem-boilerplate-commerce/blob/develop/blocks/product-list-page/product-list-page.js#L15) to the boilerplate, where we use a "custom" version of the Live Search widget to change the API URL used by the widget.
```

  A common pattern is to move all Edge Delivery Services code into a subfolder called `aem`, and then route any path starting with `aem` to Edge Delivery Services.
  :::
  
For general information on setting up Fastly for Adobe Commerce and accessing the Adobe Commerce Admin, see [Fastly services overview](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/cdn/fastly).

## Backend configuration 

The first step is to configure a backend for each origin/service that Fastly needs to route to, which includes the following:

* Edge Delivery Services
* Catalog Service GraphQL API endpoint
* Default Adobe Commerce backend

:::note

> The Fastly configuration instructions on this page are based on the [`fastly-magento2`](https://github.com/fastly/fastly-magento2) module, which expsoes Fastly service configurations in the  Adobe Commerce Admin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Fastly configuration instructions on this page are based on the [`fastly-magento2`](https://github.com/fastly/fastly-magento2) module, which exposes Fastly service configurations in the Adobe Commerce Admin.
```

:::

<Steps>

1. Log in to the Adobe Commerce Admin.

1. Click **Stores** > _Settings__ > **Configuration** > **Advanced** > **System** > **Full Page Cache** > **Fastly Configuration** > **Backend Settings** > **Create**.

1. Enter a name for the Edge Delivery Services backend.

   For example: `edge`.

1. Enter the address for the Edge Delivery Services backend.

   For example: `main--aem-boilerplate-commerce--hlxsites.aem.live`

> 1. Click **Attach condition*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Attach condition**.
```

1. Click **Create a new request condition**.

1. Enter a name for the condition.

>    For example: `false`.

Reviewer 2: Are you sure about this? A screen capture would be good here. The current screen capture shows a value of `false (REQUEST)`, but this appears to be a pre-existing condition (no medical puns intended)

Author: I restored the screenshot and modified the text in the image.

1. Enter `false` in the **Apply if** field.

1. Accept the default (`10`) in the **Priority** field.

1. Click **Create**.

> 1. Select `false` from the **Condition** drop-down list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select your new condition from the **Condition** drop-down list.
```

   :::caution

>    Don't forget to set this condition for the default Adobe Commerce backend also, otherwise this can overwrite the changes made by the VCL conditions that you configure in the custom VCL snippets. You could also lose access to the Admin, which may require an Adobe Commerce Support ticket to resolve.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Remember to also set this condition for the default Adobe Commerce backend. Otherwise, this condition can overwrite the changes made by the VCL conditions that you configure in the custom VCL snippets. You could also lose access to the Admin, which may require an Adobe Commerce Support ticket to resolve.
```

   :::

1. Set Shielding to **(none)**.

   If you choose to use shielding, see the [shielding section](#shielding) for additional guidance.

</Steps>

Repeat these steps for the Catalog Service GraphQL API endpoints (plus any other backends that you may require):

* `https://catalog-service.adobe.io/graphql`
* `https://catalog-service-sandbox.adobe.io/graphql`

:::tip
You can also rename the Adobe Commerce backend from the generated name to simply `commerce`.
:::

## VCL configuration

> Your routing set up requires five VCL snippets:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your routing set up requires the following VCL snippets:
```

I don't like to list exact counts. If a 6th snippet comes along, it's easy to miss that the count needs to change too.

* Ensure that the requests do not receive extra caching or headers if they are going to a non-Adobe Commerce backend (achieved by returning early)
* Improve performance for non-Adobe Commerce backends by rewriting some features, like compression, that would be provided by the default Adobe Commerce VCL

:::tip
If you make a change or apply a new VCL snippet, it can take some time to propagate and apply to Fastly's system. It's a best practice to validate the latest change before continuing to other changes, otherwise you may introduce a bug and find it challenging to determine the root cause.

If you need to rename a snippet, delete it first and then recreate it with the new name to avoid this [known issue](https://github.com/fastly/fastly-magento2/issues/708).
:::

To apply these custom VCL snippets to your Adobe Commerce Fastly CDN service, see [Getting started with custom VCL](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-cloud-service/user-guide/cdn/custom-vcl-snippets/fastly-vcl-custom-snippets) or use the [`fastly-magento2`](https://github.com/fastly/fastly-magento2) Admin module.

### recv

> The following `recv` snippet does a simple redirect if `host` does not contain `www`. It adds it and then redirects to `https` using a [Fastly-specific error code](https://www.fastly.com/documentation/reference/http/http-statuses/). This is done in place of the **Auto-redirect to Base URL** setting in the Commerce Admin. The steps in the [Commerce configuration](#commerce-configuration) section instruct you to set **Auto-redirect to Base URL** to **No** based on this snippet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following `recv` snippet does a simple redirect if `host` does not contain `www`. The snippet adds the string and then redirects to `https` using a [Fastly-specific error code](https://www.fastly.com/documentation/reference/http/http-statuses/). This is done in place of the **Auto-redirect to Base URL** setting in the Commerce Admin. The steps in the [Commerce configuration](#commerce-configuration) section instruct you to set **Auto-redirect to Base URL** to **No** based on this snippet.
```

## Backend configuration 

> The first step is to configure a backend for each origin/service that Fastly needs to route to, which includes the following:

Reviewer: Do we need to explicitly note when we mention `Fastly` that we are talking about _Commerce_ Fastly? Many of the steps here are specific to that, and would not work if a customer just brought their own Fastly setup.

Author: Good call out. Yes, I'll emphasize that these instructions are for Fastly's Commerce module.

* Edge Delivery Services
* Catalog Service GraphQL API endpoint
* Default Adobe Commerce backend

<Steps>

1. Log in to the Adobe Commerce Admin.

1. Click **Stores** > _Settings__ > **Configuration** > **Advanced** > **System** > **Full Page Cache** > **Fastly Configuration** > **Backend Settings** > **Create**.

1. Enter a name for the Edge Delivery Services backend.

   For example: `edge`.

1. Enter the address for the Edge Delivery Services backend. For example:

   For example: `main--aem-boilerplate-commerce--hlxsites.aem.live`

1. Click **Attach condition**.

> 1. Select `false (REQUEST) false` from the **Condition** drop-down list.

Reviewer: This may not be on the list - I think you have to create it if so. I don't remember exactly how to do that, sadly. Basically we want to just make sure that the backend is NOT going to be set as the default, otherwise you may break your environment.

Author: I'm locked out of my cloud account, so can't verify this myself unfortunately. If it's necessary to create a new condition, the [fastly-magento2](https://github.com/fastly/fastly-magento2/blob/dd786e2e06006f630e84a5b479b39a6367fb049b/Documentation/Guides/Edge-Modules/EDGE-MODULE-OTHER-CMS-INTEGRATION.md) docs provide details, but I don't know what the **Apply if** and **Priority** properties should be. If you can provide those I can update here based on the assumption that the condition must be created.

Reviewer: I think it is just "apply if = false`. The name doesn't matter. 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/30c65387-2e65-4aac-b2bc-7b34f7357cf7)

   :::note

>    Don't forget to set this condition for the default Adobe Commerce backend also, otherwise this can overwrite the changes made by the VCL conditions that you configure in the custom VCL snippets.

Reviewer: Or worse, you may completely lose access to your admin backend, and then you'll only be able to roll back via Fastly Dashboard, which I think means a support ticket 😬

   :::

1. Set Shielding to **(none)**.

>    Adobe recommends disabling shielding for simplicity. If you choose to use shielding, see the [shielding section](#shielding) for additional guidance.

Reviewer: I don't know if I would say we recommend disabling shielding. The truth is that we have not validated how applying shielding affects the operation of the VCLs. It may be fine, or it may break, we just don't know. We probably need to spend some effort here at some point, or maybe when we finally get that Fastly review they will tell us :)

See [Using VCL](https://www.fastly.com/documentation/guides/vcl/using/) in the Fastly documentation for more information.

The VCL snippets on this page are a starting point that you can alter or extend to fit your use cases. There are also examples of potential extended use cases listed further down on the page. The main purposes of the VCL snippets are to:

* Correctly set the backend based on request path
* Ensure that the requests do not receive extra caching or headers if they are going to a non-Adobe Commerce backend (achieved by returning early)
* Improve performance for non-Adobe Commerce backends by rewriting some features, like compression, that would be provided by the default Adobe Commerce VCL

:::tip
If you make a change or apply a new VCL snippet, it can take some time to propagate and apply to Fastly's system. It's a best practice to validate the latest change before continuing to other changes, otherwise you may introduce a bug and find it challenging to determine the root cause.

If you need to rename a snippet, delete it first and then recreate it with the new name to avoid this [known issue](https://github.com/fastly/fastly-magento2/issues/708).
:::

### recv

> The following snippet does a simple redirect if `host` does not contain `www`. It adds it and then redirects to `https` using a [Fastly-specific error code](https://www.fastly.com/documentation/reference/http/http-statuses/).

Reviewer: Is it worth noting that this is done in place of the "auto-redirect to base url" option in commerce admin?

Author: Yeah, especially since the steps in the Commerce configuration section further down the page instructs setting auto-redirect to base URL to no.

**Type**: `recv`

> 

Reviewer: Is it worth noting somewhere what priority means in terms of fastly VCL? Lower priority = executed first, so things like this www/https enforcement should be lower.

Author: Adding another bullet point above

   For example: `main--aem-boilerplate-commerce--hlxsites.aem.live`

1. Click **Attach condition*.

1. Click **Create a new request condition**.

1. Enter a name for the condition.

   For example: `false`.

1. Enter `false` in the **Apply if** field.

> 1. Enter `10` in the **Priority** field.

Reviewer: This is default, you don't need to call it out, or you can say "leave as is". In my screenshot I gave I had just entered false/false.

> The `recv` snippet has the following purpose:

Reviewer: Above you say "the following" but here you just say "the snippet...".

> ```

Reviewer: Note that we have removed the above conditional setting of bereq.http.Host = "mcprod.aemshop.net" for both this and `miss`. Please remove.

## Commerce configuration

If you are using the VCL to do the APEX redirect (`aemshop.net` → `www.aemshop.net` with 801 error), you should do two things in the Adobe Commerce backend:

1. Disable `auto-redirect`.
1. Set the `base_url` and `secure_base_url` settings to your domain, including `www`.

Follow these steps:

<Steps>

1. Log in to the Adobe Commerce Admin.

1. Click **Stores** > _Settings_ > **Configuration** > **General** > **Web**.

1. Expand the **URL options** section.

1. Set **Auto-redirect to Base URL** to **No**.

1. Expand the **Base URLs** section.

1. Set the **Base URL** and **Secure Base URL** to your domain, including `www`.

   For example: `https://www.aemshop.net/`

1. Expand the **Base URLs (Secure)** section.

1. Set the **Secure Base URL** to your domain, including `www`.

   For example: `https://www.aemshop.net/`

1. Click **Save Config**.

</Steps>

## Edge Delivery Service configuration

> 

Reviewer: Line 506 below, `on his page` => `on this page`

To validate your CDN setup, use `curl` requests to check expected responses from the paths you have configured.

### Content encoding, surrogate key, and cache

> Validate that surrogate key, cache hits, and content encoding are working as expected by requesting an Edge Delivery Services-served asset from your Commerce domain. Ensure you are checking a warm cache by making the request at least twice. The following examples are to a warmed cache.

Reviewer: Please update this script snippet to use https://www.aemshop.net, not just https://aemshop.net.

With the new auto-redirect vcl, you need to send the curl with www.

Validate that all requests are using `HTTP/2` or `HTTP/3` connections.

```bash

> curl -Is -L https://www.aemshop.net | grep location

Reviewer: Nope, this one should be aemshop.net, because the response isa redirect, thus the `location` header :) 
```suggestion
curl -Is -L https://aemshop.net | grep location
```

> To validate the APEX redirect, observe the location header returned by a request to the domain without `www`.

Reviewer: All of these bash scripts EXCEPT for this APEX redirect snippet need to be updated with `https://www.aemshop.net` (not just https://aemshop.net).

APEX redirect intentionally does not have it, to show the redirect/location header. Other requests now need it to return same result, otherwise they will hit the redirect rule and not reflect accurate response.
